.
- In the nation's largest
city,
the vicious
and violent members
of the underworld are hunted
by the detectives
of the Organized Crime
Control Bureau.
These are their stories.
[dramatic music]
- [sighs]
[ominous music]
♪
- Patrick, Katie, let's go.
We're going to be late.
Hon, what are you doing?
- Can I take the car today?
- What happened to yours?
- I told you.
It's in the shop.
- It's the twins'
book fair today.
We're already running late.
- How am I supposed
to get to work?
- Take an Uber.
- An Uber?
You're the one that
wanted to move
to Staten Island
in the first place.
- That was a decision we
made together for the kids.
- Whose IVF
I'm still paying off.
- Hey, you two.
Here you go.
Come on.
I'll drive you.
What time you coming home?
- I'm going to go out
for a drink with a few
of the other analysts tonight.
- I could pick you up.
- I'll call you.
Hey, Frank.
You are a no-show for
the second time this week.
If I didn't know
any better, I would
think you were
trying to screw me
since I can't get into our
storage locker without you.
Jesus!
- What?
- You scared me.
I told you 10 o'clock.
- Union coffee break.
Oh, come on.
Hey.
It was hard enough for
me to get over here.
- You heard from Frank?
- He don't have my number.
Won't give me his.
- Prick stopped
returning my calls.
- Frank's your best friend.
Maybe he just forgot.
- Are you stupid, Lloyd?
- Putting up with
the way you treat me,
yeah, maybe, I guess.
Oh, is that one of
those questions where
silence is the best answer?
- I think Frank got arrested.
- You're crazy.
- I think I'm being followed.
- By who?
- Feds.
- Don't look at him, idiot.
- You're paranoid, Phil.
I can't stay here
all day, all right?
I might not be a stockbroker
like you and Frank.
If I don't go to work,
the lights of the city
don't get turned on.
You want a ride?
My truck's outside.
- No.
I'll get Emily to pick me
up at The Train At 7:00.
- That's not till
the nighttime.
- Well, it'll give
me plenty of time
to think about our next move.
- Phil?
[door creaking]
[thumping]
[suspenseful music]
♪
[dryer thumping]
[screaming]
[theme music]
♪
- You know what
this is, don't you?
- Yeah.
Staten Island,
the Florida of New York.
- No.
It's a waste of time.
Why are the feds
are even calling us?
- Probably need help
with the hairspray mafia.
- At least they don't need to
worry about gentrification.
- I'm Sergeant Bell.
This is Detective Stabler.
- Curtis McCrary, FBI.
Hope this isn't
beneath you guys.
My field supervisor's idea.
- There are no small cases,
only feckless bureaucracies.
- So what have we got?
- Vic's name is Phil McBride.
Wife found his head in
the dryer this morning.
- Clothes dryer?
- She called local PD.
They called us.
She thinks she's been
going to work like normal.
He was fired five months ago.
- Okay.
So the guy's a liar.
What's that have to do with OC?
- He's also part of
a bank robbery crew.
- Beheaded.
- Wife says they'd
been having problems.
Vic's been sleeping
on the couch.
Claims she didn't hear
a struggle last night.
Could have been groggy.
Took two Ambien before bed.
- Problems sleeping.
I get it.
- We suspect McBride hit a
few banks over the past couple
of months up in Harlem.
- Union Square?
Union Square uptown?
- Yeah.
You heard?
Two guys with
masks and dad bods.
- Mm-hmm.
- Manhattan Mutual?
- Yeah.
Been waiting on them
to pull another job.
Will lead us to
the 2 million they stole.
The head was found
in the middle
of a cycle with
the kids' school uniforms.
- Huh.
Somebody was definitely
trying to send a message.
- Yeah.
More than one.
McBride's partner,
Frank Little,
was found shot execution-style
just yesterday morning
in a Walgreens parking lot.
- So you got dramatic
and dangerous
and cold and efficient.
- Two different MOs.
My guess is it's two
different killers.
What's the connection
between McBride
and the dead guy at Walgreens?
- Before they
became bank robbers,
they both worked at a
now-defunct crypto exchange.
That was five months ago.
- Either one of them have
connections to syndicates?
- As far as we can tell,
they were freelancers.
Did all the heavy work.
Could never figure out how
they were getting away.
- Somebody was helping them.
- Yeah. We were hoping you
could figure that out.
- Hold on a sec.
You might want this.
[tense music]
♪
- Weapon used was a jab saw.
- A jab saw?
- Readily available
at any Home Depot.
- I try to avoid that place.
- Hacksaw blade in
an aluminum handle.
- Pretty quiet
cutting through flesh.
Any defensive wounds?
- Strangulation
is the most likely
cause of death with
the head removed
on the couch post-mortem.
- It's not the
work of an amateur.
- Anything else
you can tell us?
- Lab's still processing
the blood and other materials
collected at the scene.
We'll know more soon.
- Mm. You have that
look on your face.
- We got Phil and Frank.
They work together.
They're dads.
They're not criminal
masterminds.
- So you think they
didn't know the game,
ran their mouths to someone
about the 2 million?
- Well, he obviously
was in over his head.
- Loop in Jet.
Check phone records.
Go down the list of
people they may have told.
- Yeah.
We'll start with his wife.
- Phil was a good man, kind.
He loved his kids.
He loved everybody.
- You told the Agent McCrary
that he'd spent a lot of time
at the office recently.
- 10, 12-hour days.
- Did he talk to you about
what was going on day to day,
mention any big changes?
- Market's been volatile.
- Mrs. McBride,
Phil was laid off,
let go about five months ago.
- Not possible.
He commutes into
the office every morning.
- Well, I wish that
were true, but it's not.
In fact, he'd been involved
in a number of bank robberies.
Feds have been tracking
him for a while.
- Is that Frank?
- It is.
- Well, maybe he did this.
- Except he was
murdered as well.
- There haven't been any
deposits in your account
in a very long time.
Phil was paying for
your kids' private school
with stolen money.
[tense music]
♪
- What did your husband like
to do when he wasn't at work?
- Well, he was with us, soccer
practice, dance recitals.
He's a normal dad.
- And friends?
Who did he like to
spend time with?
- Frank, the other analysts,
guys from his floor.
Other than that, Lloyd.
- Lloyd?
- They grew up together.
Phil's sister just
started dating him.
They'd just become close again.
- According to
the vic's wife, Lloyd Bloom
lives with Phil's sister,
Renee McBride, in Rosebank.
- He works in crypto too?
- No. He's a lineman
for Con-Electric.
- Any records?
- County bid for
an open bench warrant.
DUI or two.
- You ever heard of this guy?
- Name wasn't on our radar.
- Well, three guys
do a bank job.
Two wind up dead.
- Maybe he knew
you were on to him,
wanted to tie up loose ends.
- It's a good way to guarantee
no one fights over the money.
- Yeah.
- Lloyd's racked up some
medical debt, some workman's
comp claim, which has run out.
- There's your motive.
He got greedy.
- So let's put a tail on him.
Maybe he'll lead us to
the money, 2 million in cash.
I mean, that's all you feds
care about anyway, right?
- Your squad's got a purview.
Mine's got one too.
All banks are
federally insured.
Uncle Sam doesn't like
having his pockets picked.
- Unless the CEO
makes a little oopsie
with the stroke of his
pen, and then Uncle Sam
loves a cash giveaway.
- We'll put a team together.
See where Lloyd Bloom leads us.
[truck beeping]
- Lloyd Bloom.
NYPD.
[truck starts]
Trust me, you won't do that.
Turn off the truck.
Turn it off.
[tense music]
♪
.
- Hey, Lloyd.
Have a seat.
- Can I do this standing?
- No.
- My back hurts.
I have bad disks.
I fell off a pole
at work last year.
Can I get a cushion?
- I'll go look.
- While you're at
it, get me a latte.
So let's talk
about duffel bags.
- I don't know.
Duffels?
- How did you know
it was in there?
- I found it last week
while I was at work.
- You just stumbled upon
a big bag filled with money?
- There was money in there?
- 1 million in cash.
- No.
- A million?
- Truck Nuts might not
be as dumb as he looks.
- We got the money.
All we need is a confession
to the robbery and murders.
- If he's good for it.
- Let's talk about Phil.
- Where's your friend
with that cushion?
- He's probably
making my latte.
Sit.
- I can't.
I told you.
It hurts.
- Seemed to be doing OK
when you were driving.
Tell me about
your friend, Phil.
- Phil?
I don't know.
- Did you know he was dead?
- Yeah.
Emily called Renee.
She was crying.
She wasn't making
a whole lot of sense.
- Like, hysterical?
- Yeah.
- That makes sense.
Did she tell you that Phil
had robbed a few banks?
- No.
- Yeah.
The feds think that
he and his partner
were killed by
their own getaway driver.
- All right, look, I'm
going to tell you the truth.
- Oh, Okay.
- He gave me the bag.
- He gave you the bag?
- Phil, he came to me.
He was afraid of someone.
He told me to hide it,
to keep it safe, so I did.
- He must have trusted
you an awful lot.
I mean, that's a lot of money.
- Am I under arrest?
- Should you be?
- No.
- You and Phil get along?
- Yeah. I mean, we have
our issues, but
yeah, I think Phil
really liked me deep down.
- I ask because you don't seem
too broken up about his death.
You haven't asked me
how he and Frank died.
- Who's Frank?
- His partner.
- In the bank thing?
- Yeah.
- Huh. I don't--
Well, how'd they die?
- Well, Frank got shot with
an S&W .357, execution-style.
And Phil--well,
his wife found his head
bouncing around inside
the clothes dryer
like a pair of wet Nikes.
- Oh.
- You clock that?
- Classic somatic reaction.
- Which he covered.
- Isolation of affect.
- Hmm?
- It's a defense
mechanism, a way
to block out painful feelings
by recalling a traumatic event
without feeling any of
the actual emotion
associated with it.
- I can go back in
with the cushion,
help Stabler redirect.
- No.
No.
Give him this.
They found the murder weapon.
- Emily told us
that you and he were
only close recently, after
you started dating his sister.
- Yeah.
- Was there bad
blood before that?
- No.
- No?
I mean, you know, he
bullied me in high school,
but he did that
to a lot of guys.
- Okay.
[door opens]
- Oh, hey, do you
have that cushion?
- I'll bring it with his latte.
- Um, let's talk
about your girlfriend.
- Phil sister?
- Yeah.
What's her name?
- Renee.
Yeah.
Renee McBride.
- Mm-hmm.
- So I got a lot of things
running through my head
right now.
And I got to go.
- Oh, are we done?
- Well, Renee is
speaking to the Feds.
She's down at the New York
field office right now.
- Why?
- The Feds, they're looking
for the gun that killed Frank,
and I think that they think
Renee is somehow behind it.
- Renee?
She wouldn't lay
a hand on anyone.
She works with kids.
- So did John Wayne Gacy.
- Who?
- How did you and Renee meet?
- I don't know.
We grew up in the same block.
And we ran into each other
at the Great Kills Tavern.
It's a bar.
- She's pretty.
Nice picture.
- Yeah.
She's out of my league.
I hit the lotto.
- Well, you two look
really happy there.
- Are you-- are you married?
You single?
What?
- That's not how this works.
I ask the questions.
- No ring.
I don't know.
- My wife passed.
- Regret and guilt
are like slow poisons.
- Speaking from experience?
So Phil, your former
bully, how does he react
when Renee brings you home?
- How do you think?
I got a couple of DUIs.
- You got some bench warrants.
- And Phil worked in
the city, you know.
Me, I'm just a guy who never
made it off the island.
- We got some texts
off Phil's phone
over the past couple of months.
- What kind of texts?
- To his sister.
- Saying what?
- Well, kind of driving
a wedge between you two.
- Why would he do that?
- Maybe to make it easier
when you were gone.
Because there were also
texts between him and Frank.
Did you know they
wanted to kill you?
[tense music]
Yeah.
You do a favor for
a guy like that,
and that's how he repays you?
That sounds like Phil?
- Ask McCrary to check his
stash of surveillance photos
from outside of each bank job.
- For what?
- A Con-Electric truck
parked anywhere nearby.
- My back hurts.
- Where were you
the night that Phil--
- Me and Renee were visiting
my mom at the Jersey Shore.
- You know, you should have
mentioned that to start with.
You'd get the Feds off my back.
Was this a planned trip?
- No.
No, no, no.
It was like a last-minute--
- Let me write that down.
- Yeah.
[phone dings]
God, the Feds just will
not leave me alone.
Here, hold on a sec.
What is that?
Right there.
- I don't know.
A truck.
- Con-Electric truck
parked next to a bank,
a bank that Phil and
Frank were robbing
at that very time,
that very day.
Feds also found an
S&W .357 in the trunk
of your girlfriend's car.
So
you killed Frank.
And you had someone whack Phil.
Yeah?
Just one thing.
What was with
the head in the dryer?
- When we were young,
he stuffed me in one
and turned it on.
I thought I was going
to be burned alive.
- Detective.
Lab processed the DNA from
the dryer lint you pulled.
- And?
- They got a match.
- They guy Lloyd hired to
behead Phil is in the system.
The only problem is he's
got a rock-solid alibi.
- He was in prison
the night of the hit.
.
- Junior Suarez,
ex-enforcer with BX9.
Lost a kidney in a stabbing.
Clipped on a murder charge.
Guy's in for life.
No way he's your guy.
Like I said, rock-solid alibi.
- Junior?
Hey. Junior Suarez.
Detective Stabler.
This is Sergeant Bell.
You been working nights?
- It's prison.
And it's loud as
hell in those tiers.
I look forward to dialysis.
It's the only quiet I get.
- How long you've
been locked up?
- Five years, but I love it.
- You love it?
- Mm-hmm.
If I got out,
I'd have to pay
for these treatments
out of pocket.
- Co-pays, those
are the real crimes.
- How do you know Phil McBride?
- Who?
- Guy who lost his head.
- Decapitated.
- Hmm?
- Your DNA was at
the crime scene.
- It must be some
mistake at the lab
because I've been right here.
And these walls,
they move for no man.
- Like I said, not your guy.
[tense music]
♪
- How is that possible?
- It's not.
- DNA points to the guy.
- I don't disagree.
- Now, do you agree?
- Well, yeah, kind of.
- Why don't you just say that?
- Because the issue
isn't convincing
each other of anything.
It's helping McCrary
convince a jury.
If this goes to
court, we're going
to have to stand up and
testify that a guy that's
been in prison for five
years magically gets
a night off to commit a hit.
I can't do that.
Neither can you.
- I couldn't agree more.
Hey, how you doing?
I'd like to look at
the visitors' log.
- Ever hear of a FOIA request?
- Come on, man.
We don't got time for that.
- FOIA this.
- Who are you looking for?
- The X9 guy, Junior Suarez.
- Old lady visits regularly.
- Ain't his wife.
His twin sister.
- [chuckles]
- Your teeth are white,
but you got to floss more.
- Yo. How some stupid dance
from 2016
going to shake my tartar lose?
- You with BX?
- Yeah. I used to run
with them, but
I got a gig at Caesar's Bay
working the food court,
so I'm trying to
get it removed.
Yo, you're that
little jeva that used
to run with Junior, right?
- I ain't no jeva.
I'm his sister.
- My bad.
Don't go telling Junior.
That man is a soldier.
I remember when he was putting
in work on that little bicha
on 19th Street.
Yo, what happened?
I thought he was
doing a bid for that?
- He is.
- But I seen him
in front of Berto's
on Bath Ave the other night.
- Well, he gets
furloughs sometimes.
- Furloughs.
See, that's--that's funny.
Because I happen to
know lifers don't
do furloughs in Green Haven.
[tense music]
- Are you some kind of cop?
Are you even Salvadoran?
- To be honest with you, I have
no idea what the hell I am.
I grew up in foster care.
But it doesn't matter.
You know why?
Because your brother cut some
dude's head off
with a jab saw.
- What's that got
to do with me?
- Tiffany, if you
lie to me, I will
arrest you for obstruction.
You want to go home?
Tell me when you last saw him.
- The other night, he came to
my house, gave me some money.
I'm the only family he's got.
- I get it.
He's looking out for you.
- He's trying to give me
a better life, for me,
for my daughter.
- He brought you cash?
- Yeah.
- How much?
- 25k.
- So is there a
connection between Lloyd
and Junior Suarez?
- Junior's the BX9 cousin
of a lineman who works
with Lloyd at Con-Electric.
- So where are we with
the bogus furloughs
coming out of Green Haven?
- Only a couple of
senior corrections guys
handle the furlough system.
- Stop.
Look familiar?
- Cowboy boots.
- You recognize this guy?
- Yeah.
He brought us down
to see Suarez.
- His name is Mike Pendergast.
- Did you dig into
his financials?
- Yeah.
You want to know what I found?
COs make 75k a year.
This guy owns
four cars, a boat,
and a house in the Hamptons
under his wife's name.
- Can we set up a sting?
- You probably
need to know a con.
- Police.
Don't move.
Drop your knife.
Drop the knife.
That's my last warning.
Get on the floor now.
Get on the floor.
Put your hands
behind your back.
Hands behind your back.
- Yeah?
- Officer Pendergast,
you remember us?
- Yeah. You're the two cops
asking about
Junior Suarez the other day.
- Mm-hmm.
- Mike, who is it?
- No one.
Don't worry.
I'll be right there.
It's late.
What are you doing here?
- Mr. Pendergast,
you're under arrest.
- That supposed to be
some kind of a joke?
- No.
Step outside.
- I can't believe this.
- Mike, Mike, what's happening?
What's going on?
[dramatic music]
♪
[grunting]
[groans]
- Hi, Mr. Pendergast.
- You two know each other?
- No.
- I didn't finish my job.
- Don't talk to me.
- Does this mean I don't
get the cigarettes?
- Shut up.
- You have the right
to remain silent too.
.
- I want my union
rep and a lawyer.
- They're on their way.
- I'm not going to
say a damn thing
until they both get here.
- We got everything we need.
- Cars, a boat.
- Trip to the Galapagos.
- Oh, and this--
your boy, Mancuso,
forgot to flush.
- Okay, so let me get
this straight.
Every time you get one of
these unofficial furloughs,
you do a hit.
- Pretty much.
- But only lifers.
Got to be chosen
by Mr. Pendergast,
and he knows how to pick them.
Likes the guys that
like being in prison.
He gets us out.
We do a hit.
- What do you get in return?
- Sun on my skin.
I go to the park, take off my
shirt, eat some White Castle.
- But on the inside, when
you get back to Green Haven?
- I'm the king all month.
- So clout, respect.
- What about money?
- We got no use for that.
You do a hit, you get
all the cigarettes
you want till the next time.
- So smokes?
- That's our currency.
I tossed them around
like I'm making it rain.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, but your boy
Junior Suarez got paid.
Why?
- What?
No, no, no, no, no.
Nobody gets paid.
Never.
Pendergast, he may act
like Machiavelli
up on them tiers,
but he cheap as hell.
- Junior Suarez's twin sister
has 25k dropped in her lap.
Where'd Junior get that money?
- Maybe he stashed
it somewhere.
- But a criminal's stash,
if they even have one,
I mean, it disappears
faster than their shoelaces
when they go inside.
What the lawyers don't get goes
to wives, girlfriends, kids.
- Maybe he emptied
Phil McBride's
wallet after he
chopped his head
off and threw it in the dryer.
- Or--hear me
out on this one--
he did another job that night.
Pendergast's cigarettes are
only going to get him so far.
He's got his sister and
her kid to take care of.
He needs a side gig that's
going to pay him money.
- Yeah, but who's paying him
25k and for what?
- Who, I don't know.
But for what?
He's a career hitman.
Easy enough to
check on his DNA.
- All right.
Call Major Crimes.
See if they have any
open homicides that fit.
- Sorry I'm late.
How is she?
- Good.
Cooking up a storm.
- Yeah.
So I heard.
- She wanted to
make you dinner.
- Yeah.
I told her not to, though.
- Normal life.
Appreciate it while you got it.
- Okay.
Thanks for the advice.
Mama?
Wow.
- Hi, honey.
- This is too much.
- Oh, I just felt like doing
something nice for my boy.
- Well, it is nice.
Thank you.
- You're welcome.
- What's with the third plate?
Antonia just left.
Why three plates?
- It's not for her.
It's for Kathy.
[whispers]
Oh, my God.
- It's Okay.
- Oh, my God.
- Oh, it's all right.
- I just can't believe that I--
I could forget about Kathy.
- Mama, Mama, you didn't--
look, you didn't forget.
Hey, the way I look at it,
she's already here with us.
So whether you put out
an extra plate or not,
it doesn't matter.
- So beautiful.
[phone rings]
- Yeah, Bill.
- We can place Suarez at
the scene of another homicide.
- You're sure?
- DNA match just came
back from forensics.
- How far away from
the McBride residence?
- Can't be more than
a couple of miles.
- Okay. Great. Thanks.
Bye.
- Yeah, bye.
- What was that?
- That's an open homicide.
But it's a little late.
I don't want to have
Antonia come back here.
- I can stay here alone.
- I'll go tomorrow.
- You sure?
Tomorrow's Saturday.
- So what?
- It's Antonia's day off.
Or did you forget?
- [chuckles]
Okay, Mama, I'm going
to recanvass the area
while I wait for the uni.
- Yeah.
Good idea.
Boy, I'll tell you, these
young detectives these days,
I don't know if
they're lazy or what.
But if it's not on
a computer, they don't
want to know about it, right?
- [laughs]
I love you, Mama.
Stay in the car.
Don't leave.
- All right.
- Okay.
I'll be back in a bit, Okay?
[tense music]
♪
.
- I'll tell you something,
I'm glad that bitch got killed.
- Oh, yeah?
How come?
- I don't usually
speak ill of the dead,
but Rachel doesn't deserve
that kind of reverence.
- What she do that was so bad?
- She's head of the HOA.
She fined me for
my grass being too long,
fined me for
my Hanukkah lights,
having my son's RV
in the driveway.
- Basically pissed you off.
- The only good thing
I can say about her is she
had the common decency
to get murdered
so I could get a new neighbor.
- Detective Stabler?
She says she's with you.
Found her across the street.
- Yeah.
Mama, what are you doing?
I told you not to leave.
- But I didn't go anywhere.
I was just watching.
- I'm here to let you
into the vic's house.
- Okay. It's not still an
active crime scene, right?
Would you mind waiting
with my mother inside
while I take a look around?
- No problem.
- So what part of stay
in the car did we miss?
- But I couldn't see anything
if I stayed in the car.
- Rachel Lee-Sprague,
65, found dead
three days ago with a knife
wound to the carotid artery.
- "Rachel, you are a
disgusting human being.
How dare you call animal
control on our new puppy?"
- Ma'am, don't touch that.
- Oh, sorry.
I won't touch.
I'm just wondering
why she kept--
it's weird.
Oh.
I see.
That's why she's so angry,
if that's her.
Look.
Because she lost her
husband, and so young.
- She remarry?
- No.
- Stand over there, Mama.
- Am I going?
- No, no, no.
Just stand next to the officer.
- Here?
- Yep.
- You're here early
and on your day off.
- Mm.
- You made your
mom's caregiver come
in early on her second
day working for you?
- Sure did.
- For what?
The murder of a HOA president?
- I thought maybe
I'd try solving it.
- What are you talking about?
The Feds got their money.
We got the robbers,
not to mention
a murder-for-hire ring.
This is a Major Crimes
case now.
- Still doesn't
mean it makes sense.
- Junior Suarez's DNA
was found at the scene.
He killed her.
- Why?
- I mean, she
wasn't well-liked.
- That's neighborhood
drama stuff.
- Rachel Lee-Sprague
didn't know any bad guys.
Neither did any
of her neighbors.
So the question is, who paid
Junior to kill her and why?
- [sighs]
Okay.
What are you thinking?
- You ever hear
the Pareto Principle?
- It is too early
in the morning,
and I have not had my coffee.
- That's fair enough.
80% of the crimes are
committed by 20% of the perps.
- Okay.
The math is mathing.
- So this Junior Suarez
thing--he gets paid
for one hit when
none of the other
convicts get paid for theirs.
So the money that
he sent to his sister
had to have been earned
from somewhere else.
Where?
There's something
bigger going on here
than that murder-for-hire
ring out of Green Haven.
- Stabler, I'm with you.
- Good.
- We can delve
into this together.
But right now, you
need to go home.
- No.
Hey, you know, last
time I was there,
my mom cooked dinner
for me, her, and Kathy.
- Elliot, home.
Now.
That's a direct order.
[somber music]
♪
- Jet?
Hello?
[dreamy music]
♪
[theme music]
[wolf howls]